.\" Manpage for prefixer.
.TH PREFIXER 1 "__DATE__" "__VERSION__" "prefixer"
.SH NAME
.B prefixer
\-\- Renames a file by changing the beginning of its name.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B prefixer
[\fB\-vdh\fR]
[\fB\-b\fR | [\fB\-so\fR | \fB\-n\fR]]
[\fB\-c\fR \fIconfig\fR]
[\fB\-r\fR \fIregex\fR]
\fIprefix\fR \fIfile\fR \fI...\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B prefixer
provides a convenient way to deal with prefixes in filenames. By defining a set
of prefixes,
.B prefixer
is able to identify the current prefix(es) in the filename and to change it to
\fIprefix\fR.
The optional arguments allow to filter the input \fIfiles\fR
and/or to choose how the prefix(es) are processed.
.PP
The first mandatory argument \fIprefix\fR is the one to applied on the
filenames.
The other mandatory argument \fIfile\fR is the file to be renamed. Several files
can be specified. Directories and links are processed like any other files.
.SH CONFIGURATION
In order to define the set of prefixes to be used, you \fBcan\fR fill at
least one configuration file. The default configuration files are located (or may
be created) at \fI/etc/prefixer/prefixer.conf\fR (system-wide) and
\fI$HOME/.prefixer.conf\fR (per-user). The per-user configuration file overrides
the system-wide configuration file. A random file can be used as the
configuration file with the \fB--config\fR option: the specified file then
overrides all the other configuration files.
.PP
In a configuration file, \fBthe content of one line is interpreted as one
prefix\fR. To define a set of prefixes on a single line, you can use a
Perl regex: the syntax is /regex/. For example a line matching a word ending
with - would contains : "/\\w+-/".
Lines containing only whitespaces are ignored.
Prefixes containing forward slashes will raise an error.
There are no other limitations.
.PP
To define a one-shot set of prefixes the \fB--regex\fR option should be used.
It overrides all other configurations.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
The following options are available:
.TP
.BR \-b ", " \-\-blind
Blind mode set the prefix regardless the filename.
Keep all existing prefixes and add \fIprefix\fR before them.
.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-no\-update
Do not set \fIprefix\fR if other prefixes already exist.
.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-update\-only
Rename file only if at least one prefix already exists.
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-squash
Replace all prefixes with the single new one.
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-config =\fIconfig\fR
Explicitly defines the configuration file.
.TP
.BR \-r ", " \-\-regex =\fIregex\fR
Override allowed prefixes with regex.
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-dry\-run
Perform a dry-run. Enable verbose mode.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Verbose mode.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show this help.
.SH EXIT STATUS
The
.B prefixer
utility exits 0 on success, and >0 if an error occurs.
.SH EXAMPLES
Here is the best part.
.TP
In these examples the configuration defines 3 prefixes: \fBA-\fR, \fBB-\fR, \fBC-\fR.
.IP "$ prefixer A- foo-bar"
Renames foo in A-foo-bar.
.IP "$ prefixer A- B-C-foo-bar"
Renames B-C-foo in A-C-foo-bar.
.IP "$ prefixer --dry-run --squash --update-only A- B-C-foo-bar foobar"
Shows that prefixer would rename B-C-foo in A-foo-bar and ignore foobar.
.IP "$ prefixer --blind A- B-C-foo-bar"
Renames B-C-foo in A-B-C-foo-bar.
.IP "$ prefixer --regex 'X-\|Y-\|Z-' --no-update Z- X-foo-bar"
Does not update X-foo-bar because "X-" is a prefix matching the regex.
A-, B- and C- are no longer prefixes.
.SH SEE ALSO
rename(1), mv(1)
.SH BUGS
No known bugs.
.PP
Note however that
.B prefixer is still in development, and may not work as expected.
If you have any problems with it, please feel free to email me and let me know.
.SH AUTHOR
Romain Duperr\[u00E9] (romainduperre@gmail.com)
